Q: What is this thing?
A: It’s a new model of computation based on geometry, flow, and torsion—not tapes and states. Think of it as what happens when lambda calculus, DNA, and a topology textbook walk into a bar and accidentally build a deterministic version of quantum mechanics.

Non-determinism is hard for humans to understand and most cellular automata-style computation models are too simple. Geometry is the most natural way to actually understand non-Von Neumann computation.

Please note that this was built first for students and computer scientists, and I can't please everyone.

Q: Is this about Loop Quantum Gravity?
A: Well yes, but actually no.

It’s about computation.

The fact that it just so happens to solve several decades-long standing problems in physics is frankly, not my fault.

Q: Is this an elaborate troll to get back at Stephen Wolfram and Gerard 't Hooft for some slight?
A: If it is, it wasn't done intentionally. They are both cited once each for important work. Maybe, however, the foundations of physics needed a reboot, and I just happened to have a dissatisfaction and a new manifold lying around.

Q: Are you saying the Yang–Mills mass gap can’t be solved?
A: I’m saying it might be a Lost Melody: a real number that’s recognizable but not computable.

Normally these two phenomena are separate but once you turn computation into geometric process it utterly opens Pandora's box by unleashing the pathologies of real computation in the physical world.

Cantor started this process a century and a half ago, and as of right now it seems that our luck avoiding issues with the reals outside of pure math has...just run out.

As for why this hasn't been put together before, logicians naturally aren't interested in non-deterministic gauge theory. Why would they be?

Q: Is this crankery?
A: No. There’s actual category theory, geometric analysis, group theory, and citations to real math papers. I think you understand that no crank would even dream of writing such a paper. It's completely beyond their imagination. I'm far worse.

Also: no TOE, no vibes, no rants about infinity or human consciousness. Just helices.

Q: Why helices?
A: Because they encode chirality, flow, and symbolic structure — and nature already uses them to store data. I just followed the twist.

Q: This is just a clever representation!
A: As far as the constructions made of helices go — think of it like a Lie group, but in reverse! Instead of having a group that is a manifold, we create a manifold and turn it into a Lie groupoid.

The computation is manifold. The manifold is the computation.

I know you can make the "mental leap" in your mind. Two objects are the same in math when they behave the same.

Q: What if I don’t believe you?
A: Great. Read the paper. Break the model. If you can come up with a perfectly verifiable, maximally expressive computer programming language that executes on real hardware that someone who isn't one of Lurie's students can actually understand, you win.

(Also Bliokh deserves to be nominated for the Nobel in the future. The physical proof is already there, if one knows where to search and understands representation theory!)

Q: Are you trying to replace quantum computation?
A: No. But I’m trying to build a clean model of computation that happens to be geometrically expressive enough to contain the ghost of quantum mechanics — without the nondeterminism. Taking a naive approach to geometric quantization can be very insightful.

Q: Do you have a PhD?
A: Nope.

Q: How should I even cite this?
A: Once it's on arXiv, after someone gives me an endorsement.

But just cite it. That’s all I ask.

Q: You are saying that Grothendieck was wrong?
A: I'm saying the mathematics community was wrong to worship his personal ideals as self-sufficient truth. There is a richness in chirality and torsion we miss with coordinate-free geometry. Fixed points prove that, despite their ontological consequences.

I still believe in Grothendieck's vision, but when the universe tries to cheat humanity with frustrating problems like quantum mechanics, we cannot drown such a phenomenon in an ocean of generality. Instead what we can do is carve a solution using a river of flow.

Q: Why is this paper written this way?
A: Sometimes a math paper is just a math paper. Sometimes a math paper is actually a metamath paper that critiques the way we do math by constructive epistemology. You be the judge.

Q: Do you work for/worked with Eva Miranda?
A: No, but maybe after this I might!